well let's take you live to the Rafa
border crossing it's at the border with
Gaza and Egypt you can see the live
pictures there there's been some
confusion about what's happening there
let's bring you up to date with what we
know and that is that the Reuters news
agency has been reporting sources in
Egypt saying that a ceasefire has been
agreed in southern Gaza the cessation of
hostilities between Israel and Hamas was
to have begun at 6:00 in the morning GM
T and the sources said that the
ceasefire would last for several hours
they also said that the raer crossing
was to open at the same time that's to
let much needed Aid into Gaza as we're
hearing of a worsening humanitarian
situation there and Aid agencies and NOS
are saying they are desperate for that
border to be opened so that they can
send supplies across the border but
actually our sources on the ground are
saying that the border crossing has not
opened and you can can see the pictures
there they speak for themselves the
gates appear to be firmly shut there and
uh We've also heard that Hamas say it
has no knowledge of any truth and
Israel's prime minister Benjamin
netanyahu's office has also said that
there is currently no truce nor
humanitarian Aid in Gaza in exchange for
getting foreigners out so uh quite a lot
of confusion but as you can see there
the pictures speak for themselves uh
showing that the Rafa border Crossing
remains shut despite reports saying the
from the Reuters news agency that it was
going to be opened for several hours
today well as we've been reporting
Israel's Army is massing in the south of
Israel ahead of the expected offensive
although it's not clear at this point
what form it will take well President
Biden's warning against a longer term
occupation well our chief International
correspondent Le duet is in southern
Israel for us good morning morning to
you leas um Lee let's start with some of
the confusion around the Rafa border
crossing is there any more you can add
to that
story I think we have clarity now reini
I think that statement from the Israeli
Prime Minister's office and that is the
statement which matters at this moment
was categorical there is no truce there
is no agreement uh that people can go
out and Aid can get in so that's what it
is for the moment and you've been
showing the images that is also
confirming that Rafa crossing the only
Crossing out of Gaza right now for
people desperate to escape to get out
and for that Aid piling up the border to
get in but we understand from our BBC
sources in Cairo that there is an
agreement in principle but there are
still some very important and very
tricky issues to sort first of all Egypt
wants to have guarantees that its staff
operating that Crossing will be safe
that there's no danger of an errant
missile of an attack of the kind that we
saw earlier in this war secondly the
Israelis want to have a mechanism of a
way to inspect all of the lorries coming
into Gaza they want to ensure that there
are no weapons hiding hidden amongst the
food and the the fuel and the medical
supplies which are so desperately needed
in Gaza there was one hopeful account
that perhaps these issues could be
sorted by Tuesday but given the the
complexity of this moment the intensity
of this moment I and so many pieces to
be put in place I think we just have to
watch it hour by hour but Regina you can
imagine the the the the disappointment
the anger among those thousands who have
spent days without eating sleeping
washing properly they heard the report
that it could be open that they would
finally escape and these are families
with children who are traumatized by
what's been happening people living
through the worst nightmare of their
lives and now they've been told to wait
to wait again and of course not really
sure when that open when that window to
the world will open un least we've just
had another uh Source Hamas official
saying that there's no truth to the
information about the opening of the
Raffa border crossing or the temporary
ceasefire so as you say um we've had
both Israel and Hamas uh pouring scorn
on those reports that has reopened for
now but you talk about the people massed
at the border but of course there are
more than 2 million people in Gaza who
were also in a worsening
situation yes we remember a few days ago
we reported Israel's evacuation order
saying that the more than a million
living in the north of the Gaza Strip
where Israel wants to focus in this
these early phases it's military
operations we're told to leave
immediately within 24 hours to go south
and after the shock of people being told
to leave who had so few resources to
leave were were scared to leave under
the non-stop
bombardment within hours thousands
started moving and in recent days many
many Gins have moved South and that has
meant that the South as we've been
hearing hearing from our reporter AB R
Abu Alou the south is now at Breaking
Point food fuel water they're all
they're all running out as well and
everyone is on edge there so and there
are hospitals in the north who have
simply said we simply cannot up sticks
and go there are babies on incubators
there's severely injured in hospital
beds the who issued the bluntest
statement I've ever heard from The Who
saying this evacuation order is a death
sentence and that's not an
exaggeration Lee just bring us up to
date with what's happening where you are
in southern Israel of course everybody
is anticipating this Israeli offensive
what's your feeling about when that
might
come we just don't know Regina of course
this is a military secret they're
they're not going to tell us it's it's
clear both from the statements of
Israeli military and political leaders
it's clear from what we've been seeing
here on the ground in southern Israel
you may stay see behind me some of the
armor and artillery but there's masses
of armor and material that's been put in
place along the border thousands and
thousands of reservists prime minister
Netanyahu visited them another signal uh
that the ground incursion and not just
by ground sea and air as well could be
imminent asking them whether they're
ready we heard yesterday that one of the
Border towns which at one point is less
than a mile from Gaza stot where we've
spent many days over the past 10 days
that whole Community has now been
evacuated people all along this Southern
Belt have been told to leave they've
also been told to leave the Border uh
with Lebanon in the north all of these
signs are trying to get people away from
the border all the while they put the
military all of the military pieces into
place Le duet our chief International
correspondent for the moment thank you
very much